README.md, before:

# OsyNe telegram video downloader

**OsyNe telegram video downloader** is a Go-based Telegram bot that allows users to download videos from various sources such as TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts and Instagram. It downloads the video content and sends it back to the user as a reply to their message.

## Features

- Download videos from TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts, and Instagram
- Sends downloaded videos back to users as a reply
- Provides support for downloading videos from Instagram with authentication (using cookies(depricated))

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

1. Go programming language installed on your system.
2. A Telegram Bot API token. You can obtain it by creating a new bot on Telegram via the BotFather.
3. A file containing Instagram **Netscape formatted** cookies (required if you want to download videos from Instagram). Learn how to obtain these cookies in the section below. (not implemented)

### Installation

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/ar2rworld/telegram-video-downloader-bot.git
cd telegram-video-downloader-bot
```

2. Install the required dependencies:

```
go mod download
```

3. Complete installation process for [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)

4. Add enviroment variables for ADMIN_ID and BOT_TOKEN

5. Run application
```
go run ./app
```

### OR

Use the image from [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/ar2rworld/osyne-telegram-video-downloader)

1. Clone repo
```
git clone https://github.com/ar2rworld/telegram-video-downloader-bot.git
```

2. Add `.env` file

3. Run container
```
docker-compose --env-file .env up -d
```

### Usage

1. Set the required environment variables:

    - `BOT_TOKEN`: Your Telegram Bot API token.
    - `ADMIN_ID`: ID of the bot admin (the bot will send a "Hello, boss" message to this ID when it starts).

2. Build and run the bot:

```
go build -o ./osynetelegramvideodownloader ./app
./osynetelegramvideodownloader
```

3. Interact with the bot:

    - Send a video URL from TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts or Instagram to the bot.
    - The bot will download the video and send it back as a reply.
    - Send `osyndasyn ba?` to chat and bot responds with `osyndaymyn` (In kazakh "Are you here?" and "I am here" - responce)

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## TODO:
- CICD
  - push to the docker hub
    - (Done)
- Feature: Delete text of the requesting user and leave only video
  - (Bot's cannon react to messages or edit messages)
- Youtube:
  - limit with 1 minute
  - Video part specified
    - (Implemented with shorts)
- Instagram will require cookie settings
  - adding volume to the local folder with cookies.txt file
  - read a file everytime instagram.com requested
- Add https://golangci-lint.run/, locally could be run with https://pre-commit.com/, or with editor extention
  - https://gist.github.com/pantafive/3296201ef3dc14a71139cae157aa8c34

*Thanks to ChatGPT3.5*

Commit message:

add Instagram cookie file support

README.md, after:

# OsyNe telegram video downloader

**OsyNe telegram video downloader** is a Go-based Telegram bot that allows users to download videos from various sources such as TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts and Instagram. It downloads the video content and sends it back to the user as a reply to their message.

## Features

- Download videos from TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts, and Instagram
- Sends downloaded videos back to users as a reply
- Provides support for downloading videos from Instagram with authentication (using cookies)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

1. Go programming language installed on your system.
2. A Telegram Bot API token. You can obtain it by creating a new bot on Telegram via the BotFather.
3. A file containing Instagram **Netscape formatted** cookies (required if you want to download videos from Instagram).

### Installation

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/ar2rworld/telegram-video-downloader-bot.git
cd telegram-video-downloader-bot
```

2. Install the required dependencies:

```
go mod download
```

3. Complete installation process for [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)

4. Add environment variables for ADMIN_ID, BOT_TOKEN, and INSTAGRAM_COOKIES_FILE

5. Run application
```
go run ./app
```

### OR

Use docker-compose from [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/ar2rworld/osyne-telegram-video-downloader)

1. Clone repo
```
git clone https://github.com/ar2rworld/telegram-video-downloader-bot.git
```

2. Rename `template.env` to  `.env` file and add tokens

3. Run container
```
docker-compose --env-file .env up -d
```

### Usage

1. Set the required environment variables:

    - `BOT_TOKEN`: Your Telegram Bot API token.
    - `ADMIN_ID`: ID of the bot admin (the bot will send a "Hello, boss" message to this ID when it starts).
    - `INSTAGRAM_COOKIES_FILE`: Instagram session cookies file
    - `ARTIFACTS_PATH`: Instagram cookie file path on the server to pass it to the container through the volume

2. Build and run the bot:

```
go build -o ./osynetelegramvideodownloader ./app
./osynetelegramvideodownloader
```

3. Interact with the bot:

    - Send a video URL from TikTok, Twitter, Youtube shorts or Instagram to the bot.
    - The bot will download the video and send it back as a reply.
    - Send `osyndaisyn ba?` to chat and bot responds with `osyndaymyn` (In kazakh "Are you here?" and "I am here" - responce)

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## TODO:
- CICD
  - push to the docker hub
    - (Done)
- Feature: Delete text of the requesting user and leave only video
  - (Bot's cannon react to messages or edit messages)
- Youtube:
  - limit with 1 minute
  - Video part specified
    - (Implemented with shorts)
- Instagram will require cookie settings
  - adding volume to the local folder with cookies.txt file
  - read a file everytime instagram.com requested
- Add https://golangci-lint.run/, locally could be run with https://pre-commit.com/, or with editor extention
  - https://gist.github.com/pantafive/3296201ef3dc14a71139cae157aa8c34
- Improve the functionality with Steam (downloaded steam -> telegram new video steam)

*Thanks to ChatGPT3.5*
